
# Table of Contents
- [Use ctrcdnfetch (Recommended)](#use-ctrcdnfetch--recommended-)
- [Dump Contents](#dump-contents)
- [Dump Tickets/Title Keys](#dump-tickets-title-keys)
- [Converting to CIA (WIP)](#converting-to-cia--wip-)

## Use ctrcdnfetch (Recommended)

[todo]

Make sure to keep the HTTP response headers using  `-r`.

Don't hash the cetk generated by ctrcdnfetch - its a fake one.

## Dump Contents

**Tools**

-   A Nintendo (New) {2/3}DS With  [custom firmware](https://3ds.hacks.guide/)  (See CFW section) or an  [NTRBoot](https://3ds.hacks.guide/ntrboot.html)  compatible Flash Cart
-   [GodMode9](https://github.com/d0k3/GodMode9)  (See NTRBoot only).
-   The Game, DLC, or Update you wish to dump, installed on your SD Card.

**Note**

-   Game titles will be listed as 00040000000XXXXX
-   Game updates will be listed as 0004000E0XXXXXXX, and will share the same title as the full game.
-   Game DLC will be listed as 0004008CXXXXXXXX, and will share the same title as the full game.

-   Double check that you are dumping what you intend before dumping.

**Dumping**

-   Run GodMode9 via your preferred method.
-   Navigate into "[A:] SYSNAND SD"
-   Scroll down to "title"
-   Press R and A at the same time, then choose "Search for Titles"
-   Select a title, choose "Open containing folder"
-   Select all the .tmd and .app files by holding L and using the D-Pad
-   Press R and A at the same time, then choose "Copy to 0:/gm9/out". This will copy the selected files to /gm9/out on the SD Card.
-   [Re-encrypt contents](http://forum.no-intro.org/viewtopic.php?f=9&t=3567#p22550)  (may be different for newer titles) [todo: add guide from discord here] and add tmd footer back

## Dump Tickets/Title Keys

-   Navigate into "[1:] SYSNAND CTRNAND"
-   Navigate into "dbs"
-   Select "ticket.db"
-   Select "Ticket.db" options
-   Select "Mount image to drive"
-   When it says "Mounted as drive [letter]:"//Enter path now?" choose yes.
-   Find the tickets you want to dump and for each, select them and choose "Copy to 0:/gm9/out"

[todo: instructions to remove seperate console/account-unique  [data](https://www.3dbrew.org/wiki/Ticket)]

## Converting to CIA (WIP)

[todo: change content of this section into "converting to cia"] [todo: move the ntrboot tutorial off-wiki and just keep the instructions as "install cfw/use ntrboothax"]

**GodMode9 Method**

[expand this to explain how to do this for non-SD Card residing contents]

 **Tools**

-   A Nintendo (New) {2/3}DS With  [custom firmware](https://3ds.hacks.guide/)  (See CFW section) or an  [NTRBoot](https://3ds.hacks.guide/ntrboot.html)  compatible Flash Cart
-   [GodMode9](https://github.com/d0k3/GodMode9)  (See NTRBoot only).
-   The Game, DLC, or Update you wish to dump, installed on your SD Card.

**Note**

-   Game titles will be listed as 00040000000XXXXX
-   Game updates will be listed as 0004000E0XXXXXXX, and will share the same title as the full game.
-   Game DLC will be listed as 0004008CXXXXXXXX, and will share the same title as the full game.

-   Double check that you are dumping what you intend before dumping.

**Dumping (CFW)**

-   Download GodMode9 and place GodMode9.firm in the /luma/payloads folder.
-   While turning on your 3DS, hold down the start button and select GodMode9.
-   Scroll down to A: SYSNAND SD
-   Press R and A at the same time, then choose "Search for Titles"
-   Select a title, choose "TMD File Options..." and then "Build CIA (Standard)."

**Dumping (NTRBoot Only)**

[document the alternative method that allows you to run godmode9 via ntrboothax without boot.firm needed on the sd card. this is currently of limited use though]

**Installing NTRBoot**

-   Download the latest  [DS NTRBoot Flasher](https://github.com/ntrteam/ds_ntrboot_flasher/releases/tag/v4.0), and copy the ds_ntrboot_flasher_dsi.nds file to your flash cart.
-   **Note**: If your flash cart is blocked (doesn't show in 3DS menu) on the 3DS, you may still be able to use it by placing it into a DS, DS Lite (using the .nds file not marked _dsi), or DSi.
-   Start your flash cart and run the DS NTRBoot Flasher.
-   Navigate using up and down to pick your flashcart, then press A.
-   **Note**: Flashing NTRBoot will stop your flashcart from working normally, and the NDS/DSi Flasher does not support backup/restore. However, once you have NTRBoot flashed to your card you can load the  [NTR Flasher Firm](https://github.com/ntrteam/ntrboot_flasher/releases/tag/v0.4.0), and backup or restore using the firmware matching your card from  [here](https://3ds.hacks.guide/installing-boot9strap-(ntrboot)).
-   Press A to flash NTRBoot, then choose for your respective unit (Retail or Devkit).
-   Your flash cart now has NTRBoot installed.

**After installing**

-   Download GodMode9, and rename GodMode9.firm to "boot.firm" (no quotes).
-   Place boot.firm onto the root of your SD card.
-   Place a magnet onto your 3DS' Sleep sensor (around the area beneath the ABXY face buttons), then turn on your 3DS while holding Start, Select, and X at the same time. Your 3DS should boot into GodMode9.
-   Scroll down to A: SYSNAND SD
-   Press R and A at the same time, then choose "Search for Titles"
-   Select a title, choose "TMD File Options..." and then "Build CIA (Standard).-->